in the wake of the Egyptian revolution
activists in the Middle East turning up
the heat on their governments rats have
broken out across the region thousands
are rallying in Yemen and in Bahrain
where two demonstrators have been killed
two activists were also killed in
clashes with police in the Iranian
capital on Monday the protest interim
took place just a day after the US State
Department began inspiring Iran's
opposition with Twitter messages in
Farsi it's the first such rant in the
country for over a year on Tuesday
Iranian MPs called for the opposition
leaders to be tried and executed US
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton says
Washington clearly and directly supports
the protesters well for more we can now
cross live to Argentina and talk to
author and researcher Adrian salvucci
thanks very much with me for joining us
live here on RT now experts say that
Tehran is maintaining tight control over
the demonstrations there at the moment
and the opposition leaders lives are now
in danger in fact um two activists were
hanged in the country just last month
what exactly is Washington hoping to
achieve by supporting the protests there
in Iran well clearly believing before I
think clearly the United States has to
accept and has always accepted that it's
major failure in the region the Middle
East was the fall of Iran from air point
of view in 1979 to when I Chautala home
aenean the revolution that brought him
back to power took place let's not
forget that Iran was clearly in American
hands since nineteen fifty three when
the CIA how stood President Mosaddegh
mohammad mosaddegh and so clearly the
United States will support anything that
will promote what very normal call
regime change in Iran especially
considering that Iran is such a powerful
country from the point of view not only
of its potential military and also its
potential with oil but also its
potential as being a theocracy we're in
the Islamic world are the azure tolas
based in Tehran hold great sway over
literally hundreds of millions of
Muslims so whatever happens in Iran is
far more important than even what
happened with Saddam Hussein in Iraq
well we've seen it in Tunisia we've seen
it in Egypt could we see a regime change
in Iran
I very much doubt it i think that the
United States is showing that it had its
its geopolitical stands in the long run
fails they have installed puppet
governments throughout the whole region
very very much specifically in Egypt
with after the assassination of
President Sadat with the fullest support
to hosni mubarak who has now gone and I
think that we have to understand that
what the United States now i believe is
trying to achieve is a way to promote
change in a way that will facilitate
things for them at this one point that
thing is worth making here we shouldn't
think so much in terms of the United
States does this or the United States
does that but rather the power the
global power structure that is
entrenched inside the United States but
is not working in the national interest
of the people of the United States and
that has other very very specific
interest which might even go against the
national interest of the United States
of America a case at hand their
unflinching an unconditional support for
the we had political interests of the
state of israel which normally go
against the very interest of the people
of the united states so i think we have
to be very careful when we speak of the
United States not as America not even as
Washington not even ask Obama or bush
before him but rather at what we have to
be very very keen to understand what are
the political objectives and interests
of the global power structure which is
presently promoting world government
gradually and which is entrenched in the
United States and to a great extent also
in London and in the major capitals of
Europe and even in my country Argentina
well yeah that can we talk about where
you are at the moment South America you
qualified the fact about global powers
but behind this and not necessarily the
US but without a doubt many are saying
the US was very much influential in the
change of regimes which we've seen in
Latin America in the past--get do you
think you could draw any comparisons to
what happened there in Latin America the
likes of Nicaragua indeed even chili and
in Argentina to what's happening in the
Middle East now definitely but that
would go that would take us back a
little bit to what used to be the
bipolar world where you had America and
its allies and so we doing in the former
Soviet Union its allies so naturally
South America
latin america's a hole was always seen
as the United States backyard and in a
way politically and militarily and
economically we were so America would
always promote very directly Henry
kissable for example military coos in
Chile in Argentina in Brazil throughout
the region when it because they felt it
was much more trustworthy to have a
military general in charge of Argentina
or to your Brazil rather than promote
democratic elections however with the
demise of the Soviet Union of the former
Soviet Union things change very much so
it is no surprise in our region to have
seen simultaneously many military who's
in the 50s and the 60s and even the 70s
and then simultaneously all of our
countries being forced back into
so-called democracy because with the
demise of the United States if you look
at it from the point of view of the
global power structures as always saying
that operates or read its turn from me
from America the Council on Foreign
Relations the Trilateral Commission in
the in Britain the Royal Institute of
International Affairs at Tavistock
Institute are the the Bilderberg
conference or more ambitious stands the
the best instrument that they have to
control a country is so-called democracy
because how low they call it democracy
it is basically a vote counting system
handled by the mass media we guys
whether it be a president or a prime
minister or senator or a deputy is that
the one counted with all the support of
the money power whether it be for his
campaign or for media and TV time and so
forth so for example in the country like
Argentina democracy is the best way they
have to control the country against the
people's interest and I think when I
hear that they are promoting democracy
in Egypt I tremble from the Egyptians
because if it's going to be a democracy
how long the brand as it was promoted in
Argentina whore whore whore or elsewhere
throughout Latin America it will only
help to support the long term objectives
of this global power structure operating
from Europe and from the United States
and not the actual interest of We the
People to say it in a in a very local in
generalized manner okay democracy is one
thing what about stability being another
Tony Blair was saying that he hopes what
we see in Egypt will spark maybe a wave
of democratic movements throughout the
Middle East you also
what the outcome was there in South
America but nevertheless are we going to
see stability or as some people are
saying it's going to lead to further
chaos what's your prediction finally for
the Middle East region I will probably
say it will lead to further chaos
because there are too many interest in
not seeing stability throughout the
Middle East you see stability in the
Middle East especially let's let's take
the I word so to speak it's very much
geared on what happens with Israel so as
long as the State of Israel is there and
giving unconditional support by the
United States we even have a to Council
on Foreign Relations academics and
university professor Stephen Ward from
Harvard University John Muir's heimer
from chicago university writing a
600-page book call US foreign policy in
the israel lobby where he shows that as
I was saying a few minutes before the
national interest of the United States
comes second after the national interest
of the state of israel with in
washington's power structure so until
that is resolved that can be no
stability in the region so Hosni Mubarak
was very much pro-israel probably the
regime that is what will be coming
whether it be through democratic
elections or whatever will also be very
much pro-israel but until the time comes
where the problem of Israel is addressed
very very straightforward it will be
very difficult to find stability we'll
leave it there thank you very much
indeed Adrian savant you live from
Argentina thanks for being with us in